let us see how to solve this
Let us take an integer 25
We have to find an integer X which will multiply
with itself gives 25 for any integer n greater
than two the square root will lie between one and
end divided by two
Thus for 25 it's square root should like between one
and 12
We can do a binary search here from 1 to
12 in each iteration
First we will find the mid value and check if
mid Indo mid gives an integer 25 if it is
Then we have found the square root Else we have
to see whether mid indo mid is greater than or
less than 25
If it is less than 25 then we have to
continue a search in the second half from mid plus
one to end And if it is greater than 25
we have to continue a search in the first half
from start to mid minus one in the first iteration
mid is six and mid Indo mid is 36 here 36
is greater than 25 Hence we shall adjust end
to mid minus one that is five and continue searching
in the first half
Now the start is one and end
is five mid will be one plus five divided by
two
That's three and mid indo mid it's nine nine is
less than 25
Hence points start to mid
plus one that is four in the next iteration mid
will be four plus five divided by two that is
four and four indo four 16 16 again less than
25 so move start to mid plus one that is
five now start and end is five and hence mid
will also be five and five into 5 25
Thus we can return the mid element here that is
five
So what happens if given integer is not a
perfect square
Number let us take integer 11 and apply the
same logic
11 by two is five
So we will do a binary search from 1 to
5 in the first iteration mid will be three and mid
indo mid
is nine and nine is less than 11
Hence adjust start to mid plus one that is four
Now stat points to four and end points to five
Hence mid
is four mid indo mid is 16
16 is greater than 11 this point end to mid
minus one that's three now start
is not less than end this means we have reached
the end of iterations here
What is the square root of 11 It is 3.317
Leaving decimals
We have two return three
If you see the end index it is pointing to
three here that we can return it for perfect squared
numbers
The square root of number will be returned in
any one of the iterations and for non perfect square
numbers
Once our iterations get over the end index will be
pointing to the solution thus we can return it.